will Illinois get a bailout or will it
go bankrupt it seems that the central
planners have failed once again and this
time it has become apparent in Illinois
the pension fund crisis has been exposed
and it will unfortunately result in
civil unrest should the pensions not pay
out are you ready you came here for the
truth so let me unveil that for you
today we are going to look at Illinois
collapse let's begin with this Illinois
has the worst personal income growth in
the country over the Great Recession
era personal income growth by state
adjusted for inflation look at this it's
very clear it might be hard for you to
see with the font but it is Illinois
that is suffering more so than the rest
I want to show you some information
related to
Illinois beginning with
this a financial crunch is spiraling
into a serious problem for Illinois
lawmakers prompting some observers to
wonder if the state might make history
by becoming the first
congratulations to be bankrupt to go
bankrupt at the moment it's impossible
for a state to file for bankruptcy
protection
which is only afforded to counties and
municipalities like Detroit remember
that not too long ago Detroit entered
into the state chapter 9 bankruptcy
protection could be extended to States
if Congress took up the issue then it
goes
on and right here last for this
article Moody the rating agencies all
right they downgraded
Illinois's General obligation bonds to
its lowest investment grade rating
saying that it's got a lot of unpaid
bills and lo and behold mounting pension
deficits so that's one of the things I
want to focus on right here look at this
unlike the city and county government
States cannot legally declare bankruptcy
as a means of shedding debt by forcing
creditors Bond holders and government
retire years to absorb some of the
losses the last time this happened
1933 during the Great Depression
Arkansas defaulted on its debt so this
is something that we need to pay
attention to the people of Illinois have
no idea what could possibly hit them
look the pension programs they also
mention health
insurance think about the cuts think
about what could result
from reforming that's the word they use
the different social assistance programs
reforming
pensions anything people are going to
get pissed off I mean they are going to
lose it and they do every time look at
Greece look at how painful it has been
for them already with the austerity
measures and and then you do something
like this in any other City around the
world not just Athens not just Greece as
a country you do this in Illinois for
example you're going to have some upset
people they're talking about the budget
problems the underfunded employee
pension programs going on they have too
much debt and it seems like that's a
trend all over the US a year after
organizing uh the organization sounded
dire warning about the widening gap
between assets and obligations the
picture has improved just slightly look
at this this is state run Retirement
Systems reporting a shortfall of
$940 uh $34
billion in fiscal
2014 you're talking about nearly a
trillion dollars in the US
of shortfall that can't be paid back
that can't be
rescued I mean it's it's
ridiculous and people are relying on on
the pensions they're literally their
whole
livelihood if that pension doesn't come
through they're
screwed and a lot of
people you know what hold on to that
thought
just look at this
first state pension funding gap between
1997 and 2014 and you can see it's been
increasing over these years there is no
doubt that what's happening with
pensions is no different than what's
happening in any other sector more
debt more accumulation at the same time
you get less for it so no matter what it
is you're basically getting something
worse but you're paying more for
it Illinois has still has 146,000 fewer
people working compared with before the
Great Recession I thought we were in a
recovery I thought employment was doing
better there were more
jobs
well it's actually not the case you know
you can't just average out a whole
country particularly one as big as the
US in terms of its population and just
try to create averages it doesn't work
like that there are pockets and you can
see this is one example of the areas
which unfortunately aren't doing
well okay so we're looking at this feed
me the Illinois pension
system I like this cartoon I think it's
pretty
funny but the reason I mention
it is really just to have a brief moment
to talk about something that never gets
enough attention not going to get
attention in the mainstream media and
actually I would say that most in the
alternative news for some reason don't
cover
this
why why do
the why does the stock market continue
to rise we are seeing this all the
quantitative easing has been pushing up
the market and everything else and then
you look at the Pension funds the
Pension funds are unfunded liabilities
at this time they are
somehow going into the negative they've
been performing absolutely terribly
pretty much across the
board but the stock market has been
rising what is the because of this I
would assure you that what is happening
is a detriment to the people people are
relying on this it is unfortunately not
going to do well and I do believe that
they will engage in reforming these
programs people are going to get screwed
over out of their pensions and we will
have civil unrest this is not a good
sign and I would suggest that everybody
keeps their eyes peeled on what the
Pension funds do in the near
future this is the last thing I needed
to mention this right here Chicago's
homicide surge in context look they're
not the number one so therefore
everything is just fine this is just one
city Chicago you compare that to St
Louis Baltimore Detroit what I would
suggest to everyone is that the areas
where the economy is doing
poor often times doing poorly often
times you have the crime rate that is
unfortunately um getting worse so how do
you reduce the crime rate do you put
more police on the street do you put the
military on the street or do you try to
increase Prosperity small measures could
actually decrease the crime rate but
that's not the way it works they want
the crime they want the drugs they want
the situation to get much much worse
because they want to put the military on
the streets they want to put the police
they want to invade our privacy and our
Liberty and they can do so by not fixing
the problem but by aggravating it if you
found this video informative please give
me a thumbs up last but not least if you
found the video informative I know you
will find my books the money GPS and my
new release global economic cpse even
more informative you can actually look
through these books the first one is
about the four asset classes and how to
profit from them and then my new release
is about reducing your monthly expenses
and becoming self-sufficient so
definitely check these out at Amazon the
link is in the in the description below
if you want the audiobook maybe you're
not into reading or you don't have the
time you want to listen in the car or on
your phone then I have the audio book
for global economic collapse that's
available at the money gps.com take care